# Sumcoin legal risks memo

The Sumcoin Foundation has hired U.S. based attorney at law to estimate the position and the legal treatment of Sumcoin under U.S. Federal securities laws.

```This is a digest of the delivered documents made for unofficial and public use. You may refer to this document for educational and informative purposes.```

## Summary

In brief, Sumcoin, though an innovation, is at very low risk of being classified as a security. Sumcoin is one of the original cryptocurrencies, there was never an
[initial coin offering](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/initial-coin-offering-ico.asp), [premine](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/p/premining.asp) or sale of coins and there is/was no central authority or issuer. It is a decentralized p2p network based on a hybrid proof of work and proof of stake algorithm. There is a very low risk the Securities Exchange Commission (“SEC”), or another regulatory agency or plaintiff would recharacterize Sumcoin as a security.

## Securities Analysis of Sumcoin

### 1. Investment of Money

There was never an investment of funds to launch Sumcoin such as a token sale or initial coin offering. Sumcoins are generated by the users validating transactions through the Hybrid Algorithm. Users secure their own Sumcoins and the Sumcoin Network. Thus, the first prong of Howey is most likely not satisfied as there was no initial coin offering or token sale. Sumcoins were produced from the Hybrid Algorithm since the first block of the Sumcoin blockchain, which was 2019-04-07 at 18:19:16.

### 2. Common Enterprise

The Sumcoin Foundation was legally established in 2017 by the Sumcoin community, approximately 5 years after the Sumcoin Network was launched.
The Sumcoin Network did not require pooling of assets and the Sumcoin Foundation did not accept any bitcoin, ethers, virtual currency or fiat currency in
an initial coin offering, token sale or premine. The purpose of the Sumcoin Foundation is to advance the Sumcoin project.
The Foundation does not require anyone to send funds to us nor the Sumcoin Network. Specifically, the Network handles Sumcoin transactions, balances and issuance through a hybrid Scrypt proof-of-work scheme and proof-of-stake system designed to address vulnerabilities that could occur in a pure proof-of-work system. No one party controls the peer to peer Sumcoin blockchain network or the Hybrid Algorithm.

The eventual success of the Sumcoin project depends on the open-source Sumcoin community. Specifically, horizontal commonality likely does not exist because the Sumcoin project existed before the Foundation was established and the Network has been sufficiently decentralized for some time. Anyone can run the Hybrid Algorithm to secure the Network. In addition the Foundation does not take custody of any funds belonging to any Sumcoin user or the Network.
Vertical commonality likely does not exist because the Sumcoin Foundation contributions are under the open source MIT License and the Network/Sumcoin community are not bound to the Foundation’s efforts.

### 3. Expectation of Profits from the Efforts of Others

As per section 1 and 2 above, there was not an initial coin offering or token sale and likely not a common enterprise. The Sumcoin project is an open network
that anyone can contribute to at any time by dedicating their compute power to run the Hybrid Algorithm to secure the Sumcoin Network. Only if compute power
is dedicated to secure the Sumcoin Network, can a party receive fees in Sumcoin, very similar to the Bitcoin network. Sumcoin was inspired by bitcoin,
and it shares much of the source code and technical implementation of bitcoin. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) stated
that “Bitcoin and other virtual currencies are . . . properly defined as commodities.” The CFTC’s position bolsters the likelihood that Sumcoin would
not satisfy the final prong of the Howey test, as an item cannot both be a commodity regulated by the CFTC and a security regulated by the SEC.
Sumcoin and the Network existed without an issuer or promoter receiving capital from third parties in an initial coin offering, or any other offering or token sale.

While it is possible for investors to speculate on the market rate of Sumcoin, any profit derived from market speculation is based on the success of the open
source Sumcoin community or other events exogenous to our efforts.
Pseudonymous users created Sumcoin and like Bitcoin, the identity of the person(s) who started Sumcoin is unknown. It is a community based project of which its success depends on the community, of which anyone can join.
Thus, the Sumcoin would likely not satisfy the final prong of Howey.

## Conclusion

Since there was never an initial coin offering or token sale with the expectation of profit derived from others, Sumcoin likely fails the Howey test and therefore does
not constitute a security.

_______________